as you take your first step off the
plane
an eager crowd of emperor penguin
surrounds you pushing and shoving
all wanting your autograph no way it's
worse
you're hit with a chill like you've
never felt before
even though you're equipped with over 20
pounds of gear the icy wind still finds
you
the blinding sunlight obscures your view
but it doesn't help you to warm up at
all
yep this is your first day at the south
pole and it wasn't easy to get here
you meet your coordinator ready to begin
your new life in the most remote place
in the entire world grabbing your
luggage from the plane
you look around at your companions you
all went through the same
rigorous physical and psychological
testing to prepare you
for this uniquely challenging
environment the program had to make sure
that you all had what it takes to handle
months of isolation
freezing temperatures and unfamiliar
night cycles
the south pole only has a single sunset
and sunrise
across an entire year this isn't even
mentioning the physical tests you had to
pass
researchers need a clean bill of health
when they set off
because there's usually only one doctor
on the base
you hesitate at first seeing nothing
before you but an
endless icy desert but it isn't long
before you notice a large building in
the distance
this is the amundsen scott south pole
station
after a long walk through the deep snow
you reach it
one step through the doors and you
immediately stop shivering
it's so warm that everyone is walking
around in t-shirts
you almost forget that you are in the
coldest place on the planet
it surprises you to see how many people
come to greet you
and they're not penguins these
researchers are stationed for the entire
summer
studying things in the south pole's
extreme climates
you're officially welcome with an
introductory slideshow in the conference
room
the basic ground rules can help you in
case things go you know
south everything is organized from
provisions to waste management
the station recycles everything it can
even different kinds of batteries
anything that can't be recycled is sent
on a voyage
all the way across the ocean to a dump
in america
once you're finished the coordinator
escorts you to your dorm
the place you'll call home for the
duration of your stay
you're excited to tell your family and
friends how amazing it is at the south
pole
and luckily the station comes equipped
with internet access
as soon as you open up youtube and click
on a video though
you're greeted with a buffering sign the
lack of satellites over antarctica
means you'll need to get used to slow
internet for a while
from your window you can see the snow
scape spreading out before you
unlike the area around the coast of the
continent the south pole is completely
devoid of life
no plants or animals are able to brave
the conditions this far
inland other than the occasional bird
blown off course by the wind
the entire area is just a deserted sea
of eyes
the amundsen scot south pole station
stands alone in this desert
the base camp needs all kinds of people
so it can survive in the unique
environment
cooks plumbers electricians medics and
other staff are all required to keep
things working
so the scientists can do their research
you might be surprised at how nice the
living conditions are
for all these workers sure you'd find
the usual research facilities and the
laboratories
but there are also many rooms set aside
for fun activities
the base has its own basketball court
where different departments can
regularly compete
there are even whole rooms set aside for
music and arts
most importantly there's a dentist who
can make sure your teeth aren't damaged
from all that
chattering let's not forget the
cafeteria that serves dishes from
all over the world craving a delicious
green salad
then you head down to the internal
greenhouse to pick some fresh fruits and
veggies
you'll find tomatoes avocados lettuce
and even tropical fruits
the greenhouse might also be the most
humid place on the entire continent
amazingly it's so effective that it can
produce around
20 pounds of goodies per week there
won't be any water shortages either
the base is planted on an almost
infinite supply of fresh water
the crews simply feed antarctic ice into
their specially designed generators
that melt and filter it into clean
drinking water
if the stress of the extreme climate
ever gets to you
you can just hop into the sauna detoxing
in the south pole is a one of a kind
experience
now that you're familiar with the
facilities and can get around with ease
it's time to work the base is mainly
dedicated to astronomy
because the crystal clear antarctic sky
allows researchers to capture
amazing images of space antarctica is
perfect for these pictures
because it's the driest place on earth
there's almost no water vapor in the
atmosphere
you're here for another reason though
the station is also used to study
volcanic activity
scientists have discovered 91 volcanoes
buried underneath the antarctic ice
sheet
and it's your job to collect samples
from one of them
back out into the frigid coal your teeth
begin to chatter again
luckily this is nowhere near as bad as
the lowest temperature ever recorded
here
the south pole has been as cold as minus
120 degrees fahrenheit
that's so cold that if you threw a glass
of boiling water into the air
it would turn to ice before it hit the
ground it would be almost impossible to
even leave the station at that
temperature
the warmest the south pole has ever been
was 10 degrees fahrenheit
and that was at the peak of summer as
you approach the digging site
you start to notice changes in the
scenery there are hilltops and steep
ledges all around
as you got closer to the coast you begin
to see more
animal life you can even see a colony of
penguins out in the distance
you scout the area around the side
perhaps expecting to see an enormous
mountain
spewing lava from its tip in fact
there's nothing inside at all
that's because the volcano is right
beneath your feet
it's part of the enormous land mass
below the ice that the continent is
famous for
antarctica might just look like a giant
field of ice
but there's actually a huge continent
underneath that means it has volcanoes
mountains and valleys like any other
continent
scientists have recently discovered that
the antarctic land mass
has the lowest point on the planet as
well as huge mountain ranges
if any of the numerous volcanoes were to
erupt it would melt a huge part of the
surface ice
and increase the spill of ice into the
ocean the sea level would rise and flood
coastal areas around the world the ocean
waters would also be disrupted
putting marine life at risk you can
count yourself lucky though
all of these volcanoes are dormant at
the moment
so you can begin your work you begin to
unpack your equipment and start digging
you and your team set up a small tent to
try to stay warm
while you monitor the progress on some
portable screens
your stomach rumbles and your team
rummaged for the sandwiches they brought
with them
there was no need to carry them in a
cooler for obvious reasons
smelling the food antarctic birds begin
to circle above you as you eat
as you lay down to sleep your three
layers of clothes begin to feel like
nothing more than a t-shirt you put even
more on
and zip the tent up so you can finally
get some rest
strong wind buffets the tank and you
think you hear it growling outside
you panic but then you remember there
are no polar bears in antarctica
in fact there are no large predators at
all so
you can sleep easy you wake up
and the sky looks the same as it did all
night
each day lasts six months on this
continent your work is done
so you can pack up and begin the long
journey back to the station
hours later you get back to the more
familiar flatlands of the south pole
and eventually the warmth of the
research station
your first few days on the station were
a great success
you might have helped us to understand
just a little bit more about this
mysterious continent
there are sure to be many more surprises
hidden under the ice sheet though
who knows what we might find in the
future